CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Contributions are always welcome, no matter how large or small!

We want this community to be friendly and respectful to each other. Please follow it in all your interactions with the project. Before contributing, please read the [code of conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Development workflow

- The library package in the root directory.
- An example app in the `example/` directory.

To get started with the project, run `bun` in the root directory to install the required dependencies for each package:

```sh
bun
```

The [example app](/example/) demonstrates usage of the library. You need to run it to test any changes you make.

It is configured to use the local version of the library, so any changes you make to the library's source code will be reflected in the example app. Changes to the library's JavaScript code will be reflected in the example app without a rebuild, but native code changes will require a rebuild of the example app.

You can use various commands from the root directory to work with the project.

To start the packager:

```sh
bun run example start
```

To run the example app on Android:

```sh
bun run example android
```

To run the example app on iOS:

```sh
bun run example ios
```

To confirm that the app is running with the new architecture, you can check the Metro logs for a message like this:

```sh
Running "YoutubeBridgeExample" with {"fabric":true,"initialProps":{"concurrentRoot":true},"rootTag":1}
```

Note the `"fabric":true` and `"concurrentRoot":true` properties.

To run the example app on Web:

```sh
bun run example web
```

Make sure your code passes TypeScript and ESLint. Run the following to verify:

```sh
bun run typecheck
bun run lint
```

To fix formatting errors, run the following:

```sh
bun run lint --fix
```

Remember to add tests for your change if possible. Run the unit tests by:

```sh
bun run test
```

### Commit message convention

We follow the [conventional commits specification](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en) for our commit messages:

- `fix`: bug fixes, e.g. fix crash due to deprecated method.
- `feat`: new features, e.g. add new method to the module.
- `refactor`: code refactor, e.g. migrate from class components to hooks.
- `docs`: changes into documentation, e.g. add usage example for the module..
- `test`: adding or updating tests, e.g. add integration tests using detox.
- `chore`: tooling changes, e.g. change CI config.

Our pre-commit hooks verify that your commit message matches this format when committing.

### Linting and tests

[ESLint](https://eslint.org/), [Prettier](https://prettier.io/), [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)

We use [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) for type checking, [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) with [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) for linting and formatting the code, and [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) for testing.

Our pre-commit hooks verify that the linter and tests pass when committing.

### Publishing to npm

We use [changesets](https://github.com/changesets/changesets) to make it easier to publish new versions. It handles common tasks like bumping version based on semver, creating tags and releases etc.

To publish new versions, run the following:

```sh
bun run release
```

### Scripts

The `package.json` file contains various scripts for common tasks:

- `bun install`: setup project by installing dependencies.
- `bun run typecheck`: type-check files with TypeScript.
- `bun run lint`: lint files with ESLint.
- `bun run test`: run unit tests with Jest.
- `bun run example start`: start the Metro server for the example app.
- `bun run example android`: run the example app on Android.
- `bun run example ios`: run the example app on iOS.

### Sending a pull request

> **Working on your first pull request?** You can learn how from this _free_ series: [How to Contribute to an Open Source Project on GitHub](https://app.egghead.io/playlists/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github).

When you're sending a pull request:

- Prefer small pull requests focused on one change.
- Verify that linters and tests are passing.
- Review the documentation to make sure it looks good.
- Follow the pull request template when opening a pull request.
- For pull requests that change the API or implementation, discuss with maintainers first by opening an issue.

Commit message:

docs: add initial README with Korean and English versions (#6)
* docs: add initial README with Korean and English versions

- Add comprehensive Korean documentation
- Add English README for international users
- Include installation, usage, and examples
- Set up multilingual documentation structure
- Update CONTRIBUTING.md

* chore(example): update example code

* docs(readme): fix link korean

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Contributions are always welcome, no matter how large or small!

We want this community to be friendly and respectful to each other. Please follow it in all your interactions with the project. Before contributing, please read the [code of conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Development workflow

- The library package in the root directory.
- An example app in the `example/` directory.

To get started with the project, run `bun` in the root directory to install the required dependencies for each package:

```sh
bun install
cd example && bun install
```

The [example app](/example/) demonstrates usage of the library. You need to run it to test any changes you make.

It is configured to use the local version of the library, so any changes you make to the library's source code will be reflected in the example app. Changes to the library's JavaScript code will be reflected in the example app without a rebuild, but native code changes will require a rebuild of the example app.

You can use various commands from the root directory to work with the project.

To start the packager:

```sh
bun run example start
```

To run the example app on Android:

```sh
bun run example android
```

To run the example app on iOS:

```sh
bun run example ios
```

To confirm that the app is running with the new architecture, you can check the Metro logs for a message like this:

```sh
Running "YoutubeBridgeExample" with {"fabric":true,"initialProps":{"concurrentRoot":true},"rootTag":1}
```

Note the `"fabric":true` and `"concurrentRoot":true` properties.

To run the example app on Web:

```sh
bun run example web
```

Make sure your code passes TypeScript and ESLint. Run the following to verify:

```sh
bun run typecheck
bun run lint
```

To fix formatting errors, run the following:

```sh
bun run lint --fix
```

Remember to add tests for your change if possible. Run the unit tests by:

```sh
bun run test
```

### Commit message convention

We follow the [conventional commits specification](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en) for our commit messages:

- `fix`: bug fixes, e.g. fix crash due to deprecated method.
- `feat`: new features, e.g. add new method to the module.
- `refactor`: code refactor, e.g. migrate from class components to hooks.
- `docs`: changes into documentation, e.g. add usage example for the module..
- `test`: adding or updating tests, e.g. add integration tests using detox.
- `chore`: tooling changes, e.g. change CI config.

Our pre-commit hooks verify that your commit message matches this format when committing.

### Linting and tests

[biomejs](https://biomejs.dev/), [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)

We use [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) for type checking, [biomejs](https://biomejs.dev/) for linting and formatting the code, and [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) for testing.

Our pre-commit hooks verify that the linter and tests pass when committing.

### Publishing to npm

We use [changesets](https://github.com/changesets/changesets) to make it easier to publish new versions. It handles common tasks like bumping version based on semver, creating tags and releases etc.

### Scripts

The `package.json` file contains various scripts for common tasks:

- `bun install`: setup project by installing dependencies.
- `bun run typecheck`: type-check files with TypeScript.
- `bun run lint`: lint files with ESLint.
- `bun run test`: run unit tests with Jest.
- `bun run example start`: start the Metro server for the example app.
- `bun run example android`: run the example app on Android.
- `bun run example ios`: run the example app on iOS.

### Sending a pull request

> **Working on your first pull request?** You can learn how from this _free_ series: [How to Contribute to an Open Source Project on GitHub](https://app.egghead.io/playlists/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github).

When you're sending a pull request:

- Prefer small pull requests focused on one change.
- Verify that linters and tests are passing.
- Review the documentation to make sure it looks good.
- Follow the pull request template when opening a pull request.
- For pull requests that change the API or implementation, discuss with maintainers first by opening an issue.
